# Stitched Summary §37.41 — Security plan. States must have a security plan that addresses the provisions in paragraph (b) of this section and must submit the security plan as part of its REAL ID certification under § 37.55. (b) Security plan contents. At a minimum, the security plan must address— (1) Physical security for the following: (c) Handling of Security Plan. (a) States must ensure the physical security of facilities where driver's licenses and identification cards are produced, and the security of document materials and papers from which driver's licenses and identification cards are produced or manufactured. (b) States must describe the security of DMV facilities as part of their security plan, in accordance with § 37.41. §37.55 — State certification documentation. States certifying compliance with the REAL ID Act must follow the certification requirements described in § 37.55. States must file the documentation required under § 37.55 at least 90 days prior to the effective date of full compliance. (a) General inspection authority. States must cooperate with DHS's review of the State's compliance at any time. DHS shall review forms, conduct audits of States as necessary, and make a preliminary determination on whether the State has satisfied the requirements of this part within 45 days of receipt of the Material Compliance Checklist or State certification documentation of full compliance pursuant to § 37.55. (c) State reply. §37.15 — Physical security features for the driver's license or identification card. (a) States shall make reasonable efforts to ensure that the applicant does not have more than one driver's license or identification card already issued by that State under a different identity. States shall also comply with the provisions of § 37.29 before issuing a driver's license or identification card. In the event of a non-match, the DMV must not issue a REAL ID driver's license or identification card to an applicant, and must refer the individual to U.S. (d) Unique Driver's license or identification card number. (h) Physical security features, pursuant to § 37.15 of this subpart. (n) The card shall bear a DHS-approved security marking on each driver's license or identification card that is issued reflecting the card's level of compliance as set forth in § 37.51 of this Rule. §37.45 — Background checks for covered employees. (b) States must describe the security of DMV facilities as part of their security plan, in accordance with § 37.41. States are required to subject persons who are involved in the manufacture or production of REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards, or who have the ability to affect the identity information that appears on the driver's license or identification card, or current employees who will be assigned to such positions (“covered employees” or “covered positions”), to a background check. (b) Background checks. Reference checks from prior employers are not required if the individual has been employed by the DMV for at least two consecutive years since May 11, 2006. (d) Background checks substantially similar to the requirements of this section that were conducted on existing employees on or after May 11, 2006 need not be re-conducted. (a) Full compliance. §37.3 — Definitions. Domestic violence and dating violence have the meanings given the terms in section 3, Universal definitions and grant provisions, of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Pub. This definition does not affect other definitions or requirements that may be contained in the Immigration and Nationality Act or other laws. L. 109-162, 119 Stat. 2960, 2964, Jan. 5, 2006); codified at section 40002, Definitions and grant provisions, 42 U.S.C. 13925, or State laws addressing sexual assault and stalking. Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). IBR approved for §§ 37.8(b); 37.10(a); and appendix A to this subpart. §37.21 — Temporary or limited-term driver's licenses and identification cards. States may only issue a temporary or limited-term REAL ID driver's license or identification card to an individual who has temporary lawful status in the United States. (a) States must require, before issuing a temporary or limited-term driver's license or identification card to a person, valid documentary evidence, verifiable through SAVE or other DHS-approved means, that the person has lawful status in the United States. §37.4 — Incorporation by reference. Covered employees means Department of Motor Vehicles employees or contractors who are involved in the manufacture or production of REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards, or who have the ability to affect the identity information that appears on the driver's license or identification card. DMV means the Department of Motor Vehicles or any State Government entity that issues driver's licenses and identification cards, or an office with equivalent function for issuing driver's licenses and identification cards. REAL ID Driver's License or Identification Card means a driver's license or identification card that has been issued by a State that has been certified by DHS to be in compliance with the requirements of the REAL ID Act and which meets the standards of subparts A through D of this part, including temporary or limited-term driver's licenses or identification cards issued under § 37.21. Certain material is incorporated by reference into this
