# Stitched Summary

§408.912 — When are you without fault regarding an overpayment?
(a) General—when fault is relevant. If you request waiver of recovery of an overpayment, we must determine whether you were without fault. You are not relieved of liability and are not without fault solely because we may have been at fault in making the overpayment. When we determine whether you were without fault, we consider all the pertinent circumstances relating to the overpayment. We will waive recovery of an overpayment when you are without fault (as defined in § 408.912) and recovery of the overpayment would defeat the purpose of the title VIII program. Recovery of an overpayment would defeat the purpose of the title VIII program to the extent that our recovery action would deprive you of income and resources you need to meet your ordinary and necessary living expenses as described in § 404.508(a) of this chapter.

§408.910 — When will we waive recovery of an SVB overpayment?
We will withhold or adjust any underpayment due you to reduce any overpayment to you that we determine for a different period, unless we have waived recovery of the overpayment under the provisions of §§ 408.910 through 408.914. We will waive recovery of an overpayment when: (c) We will apply the procedures in this paragraph (c) when an individual requests waiver of all or part of a qualifying overpayment. (3) If we determine under paragraph (c)(2) of this section that an individual or a representative payee is without fault in causing a qualifying overpayment, we will also determine that recovery of the qualifying overpayment would be against equity and good conscience. Waiver of recovery of an overpayment from you (or, after your death, from your estate) frees you and your estate from the obligation to repay the amount of the overpayment covered by the waiver. We found that you are eligible for waiver of recovery of $260 of that amount.

§408.902 — What is an overpayment?
(b) An underpayment is: The amount of an underpayment or overpayment is the difference between the amount you are paid and the amount you are due for a given period. An underpayment or overpayment period begins with the first month for which there is a difference between the amount paid and the amount actually due for that month. A later initial determination of an overpayment will require no change with respect to a prior determination of overpayment or to the period relating to such prior determination to the extent that the basis of the prior overpayment remains the same. (b) Limited delay in payment of an underpayment. Where we have detected a potential overpayment but we have not made a determination of the overpayment ( see § 408.918(a)), we will not delay making a determination of underpayment and paying you unless we can make an overpayment determination before the close of the month following the month in which we discovered the potential underpayment.

§408.641 — Who is liable if your representative payee misuses your benefits?
For the rules we follow to determine who is liable for repayment of misused benefits, see § 404.2041 of this chapter..

§408.913 — When would overpayment recovery defeat the purpose of the title VIII program?
When we determine whether you were without fault, we consider all the pertinent circumstances relating to the overpayment. We will waive recovery of an overpayment when you are without fault (as defined in § 408.912) and recovery of the overpayment would defeat the purpose of the title VIII program. Recovery of an overpayment would defeat the purpose of the title VIII program to the extent that our recovery action would deprive you of income and resources you need to meet your ordinary and necessary living expenses as described in § 404.508(a) of this chapter. We will waive recovery of an overpayment when you are without fault (as defined in § 408.912) and recovery would be against equity and good conscience. Recovery would be against equity and good conscience if you changed your position for the worse or gave up a valuable right in reliance on our notice that payment would be made or because of the incorrect payment itself. In this case, recovery of the overpayment would be considered “against equity and good conscience.”

§408.914 — When would overpayment recovery be against equity and good conscience?
We will waive recovery of an overpayment when you are without fault (as defined in § 408.912) and recovery of the overpayment would defeat the purpose of the title VIII program. Recovery of an overpayment would defeat the purpose of the title VIII program to the extent that our recovery action would deprive you of income and resources you need to meet your ordinary and necessary living expenses as described in § 404.508(a) of this chapter. We will waive recovery of an overpayment when you are without fault (as defined in § 408.912) and recovery would be against equity and good conscience. Recovery would be against equity and good conscience if you changed your position for the worse or gave up a valuable right in reliance on our notice that payment would be made or because of the incorrect payment itself. In this case, recovery of the overpayment would be considered “against equity and good conscience.” Whenever we determine that you were overpaid or underpaid for a given period, as defined in § 408.903, we will send you a written notice of the correct and incorrect amounts you received for each month in the period, even if part or all of the underpayment must be withheld in accordance with § 408.905.

§408.218 — Do you meet the SSI eligibility requirements?
(a) Service requirements. For SVB purposes, you are a World War II veteran if you: (1) Served in the active military, naval or air service of the United States during World War II at any time during the period beginning on September 16, 1940 and ending on July 24, 1947; or (2) Served in the organized military forces of the Government of the Commonwealth of the Philippines, while the forces were in the service of the U.S. (a) You have been determined to be eligible for SSI (except as noted in paragraph (c) of this section); you do not have to actually receive a payment for that month; (b) Your SSI eligibility has not been terminated for that month; and (c) Your SSI benefits are not subject to a penalty under § 416.1340 of this chapter. For other benefit income to affect your SVB eligibility, you must have been receiving the other benefit income in any part of the 12-month period before the month in which you filed your application for SVB.

§416.1340 — 


§408.202 — How do you qualify for SVB?
You qualify for SVB if you meet all of the following requirements. (a) Age.

§408.220 — Do you have other benefit income?
(a) You have been determined to be eligible for SSI (except as noted in paragraph (c) of this section); you do not have to actually receive a payment for that month; (a) Description of other benefit income. Other benefit income is any regular periodic payment (such as an annuity, pension, retirement or disability benefit) that you receive. For other benefit income to affect your SVB eligibility, you must have been receiving the other benefit income in any part of the 12-month period before the month in which you filed your application for SVB. If, at the time you file your application for SVB, your other benefit income is equal to, or more than, the maximum SVB payment possible (see § 408.505), we will deny your SVB claim. If you have been determined to be qualified for SVB, we will reduce any monthly SVB payments you become entitled to by the amount of your other benefit income (see § 408.510 for a description of how we make the reduction).

§408.216 — Are you a World War II veteran?
(a) Service requirements. For SVB purposes, you are a World War II veteran if you: (1) Served in the active military, naval or air service of the United States during World War II at any time during the period beginning on September 16, 1940 and ending on July 24, 1947; or (2) Served in the organized military forces of the Government of the Commonwealth of the Philippines, while the forces were in the service of the U.S.

§408.923 — Is there a limit on the amount we will withhold from your SVB payments to recover an overpayment?
If you do not refund your overpayment to us, and waiver of recovery is not applicable, we will adjust any SVB payments due you to recover the overpayment. Adjustment will generally be accomplished by withholding each month the amount set forth in § 408.923 from the benefit payable to you. Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the amount we will withhold from your monthly SVB payment to recover an overpayment is limited to the lesser of (1) the amount of your Federal SVB payment or (2) an amount equal to 10 percent of the maximum SVB monthly payment amount as defined in § 408.505(a). When we notify you of the rate we propose to withhold from your monthly SVB payment, we will give you the opportunity to request a higher or lower rate of withholding than that proposed. It does not include a mere omission on your part; it is an affirmative act to conceal. Cross-program recovery is the process that we will use to collect title VIII overpayments from benefits payable to you under title II or title XVI of the Social Security Act.

§408.505 — How do we determine the amount of your SVB payment?
(a) Maximum SVB payment. The maximum monthly SVB payment is equal to 75% of the FBR for an individual under title XVI of the Act.

§404.508 — 


§408.922 — When will we adjust your SVB payments to recover an overpayment?
If you do not refund your overpayment to us, and waiver of recovery is not applicable, we will adjust any SVB payments due you to recover the overpayment. Adjustment will generally be accomplished by withholding each month the amount set forth in § 408.923 from the benefit payable to you..

§408.940 — When will we refer an SVB overpayment to the Department of the Treasury for tax refund offset?
(a) General. The standards we will apply and the procedures we will follow before requesting the Department of the Treasury to offset income tax refunds due you to recover outstanding overpayments are set forth in §§ 408.940 through 408.946 of this subpart.

§408.224 — How do we determine the monthly amount of your other benefit income?
If your other benefit income is paid in other than monthly amounts, we will compute the equivalent monthly amount as follows: (a) Weekly payments. We multiply the amount of the weekly payment by 52 and divide by 12 to determine the equivalent monthly payment amount.

§408.222 — How does your other benefit income affect your SVB?
(a) Income began before you qualify for SVB. If, at the time you file your application for SVB, your other benefit income is equal to, or more than, the maximum SVB payment possible (see § 408.505), we will deny your SVB claim.

§408.226 — What happens if you begin receiving other benefit income after you become entitled to SVB?
If you begin receiving other benefit income after you become entitled to SVB, we will reduce your SVB by the amount of those payments only if you were receiving similar benefits from the same or a related source during the 12-month period before you filed for SVB. (See § 408.220(b) for a description of when we consider other benefit income to be from the same or a related source.).

§408.655 — When will we stop making your payments to a representative payee?
We follow the rules in § 404.2050 of this chapter to determine when we will select a new representative payee for you. To determine when we will stop representative payment for you, we follow the rules in § 404.2055 of this chapter. For a description of what happens to your accumulated funds (including the interest earned on the funds) when we change your representative payee or when you begin receiving benefits directly, see § 404.2060 of this chapter.

§404.2055 — 


§408.660 — What happens to your accumulated funds when your representative payee changes?
For a description of what happens to your accumulated funds (including the interest earned on the funds) when we change your representative payee or when you begin receiving benefits directly, see § 404.2060 of this chapter..

§408.650 — When will we select a new representative payee for you?
We follow the rules in § 404.2050 of this chapter to determine when we will select a new representative payee for you..

§408.610 — When will we send your SVB payments to a representative payee?
In determining when we will pay your benefits to a representative payee, we follow the rules in § 404.2010(a) of this chapter..

§408.1009 — How do you request reconsideration?
You can file your request for reconsideration at: If you want a reconsideration of the initial determination but do not request one within 60 days after the date you receive notice of the initial determination, you may ask us for more time to request a reconsideration. If you show us that you had good cause for missing the deadline, we will extend the time period. To determine whether good cause exists, we use the standards explained in § 408.1011. (a) In determining whether you have shown that you have good cause for missing a deadline to request review we consider— (1) What circumstances kept you from making the request on time; (6) We gave you incorrect or incomplete information about when and how to request administrative review or to file a civil suit.

§408.1011 — How do we determine whether you had good cause for missing the deadline to request review?
(a) In determining whether you have shown that you have good cause for missing a deadline to request review we consider— (1) What circumstances kept you from making the request on time; (2) Whether our action misled you; (3) Whether you did not understand the requirements of the Act resulting from amendments to the Act, other legislation, or court decisions; and (4) Whether you had any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) which prevented you from filing a timely request or from understanding or knowing about the need to file a timely request for review. (b) Examples of circumstances where good cause may exist include, but are not limited to, the following situations: (1) You were seriously ill and were prevented from contacting us in person, in writing, or through a friend, relative, or other person.

§404.1927 — 


§408.1015 — What procedures apply if you request reconsideration of an initial determination that results in suspension, reduction, or termination of your SVB?
If you have been entitled to SVB and we notify you that we are going to suspend, reduce or terminate your benefit payments, you can appeal our determination within 60 days of the date you receive our notice. The 60-day period may be extended if you have good cause for an extension of time under the conditions stated in § 408.1011(b).

§408.1022 — How will we notify you of our reconsidered determination?
We will mail a written notice of the reconsidered determination to you at your last known address. We will state the specific reasons for the determination and tell you about your right to a hearing.

§408.903 — How do we determine the amount of an underpayment or overpayment?
(a) General. The amount of an underpayment or overpayment is the difference between the amount you are paid and the amount you are due for a given period.

§408.905 — Will we withhold or adjust an underpayment to reduce an overpayment if that overpayment occurred in a different period?
We will withhold or adjust any underpayment due you to reduce any overpayment to you that we determine for a different period, unless we have waived recovery of the overpayment under the provisions of §§ 408.910 through 408.914..

§408.901 — What is an underpayment?
(a) An underpayment can occur only with respect to a period for which you filed an application for benefits and met all conditions of eligibility for benefits. (b) An underpayment is: (1) Nonpayment, where payment was due but was not made; or (2) Payment of less than the amount due for a period.

§408.931 — How much will we withhold from your title II and title XVI benefits to recover a title VIII overpayment?
(a) If past-due benefits are payable to you, we will withhold the lesser of the entire overpayment balance or the entire amount of past-due benefits. (b)(1) We will collect the overpayment from current monthly benefits due in a month under title II and title XVI by withholding the lesser of the amount of the entire overpayment balance or: (i) 10 percent of the monthly title II benefits payable for that month and (ii) in the case of title XVI benefits, an amount no greater than the lesser of the benefit payable for that month or an amount equal to 10 percent of your income for that month (including such monthly benefit but excluding payments under title II when recovery is also made from title II benefits and excluding income excluded pursuant to §§ 416.1112 and 416.1124 of this chapter).

§408.340 — When will we use a written statement as your filing date?
Your application for SVB will remain in effect from the date it is filed until we make a final determination on it, unless there is a hearing decision on your application. If you file with us under the rules stated in § 408.325 a written statement, such as a letter, indicating your intent to claim SVB, we will use the filing date of the written statement as the filing date of your application. If the postmark is unreadable or there is no United States postmark, we will use the date the statement is signed (if dated) or 5 days before the day we receive the written statement, whichever date is later, as the filing date. In order for us to use your written statement to protect your filing date, the following requirements must be met: (d) You are alive when the application is filed. We will use the date of an oral inquiry about SVB as the filing date of your application for SVB if the following requirements are met:

§408.315 — Who may sign your application?
(a) When you must sign. If you are mentally competent, and physically able to do so, you must sign your own application.

§408.325 — When is your application considered filed?
(a) General rule. We consider an application for SVB filed on the day it is received by an SSA employee at one of our offices, by an SSA employee who is authorized to receive it at a place other than one of our offices, or by any office of the U.S.

§408.310 — What makes an application a claim for SVB?
To be considered a claim for SVB, an application must generally meet all of the following conditions: (a) It must be on the prescribed SVB application form (SSA-2000-F6, Application for Special Benefits for World War II Veterans). (b) It must be completed and filed with SSA as described in § 408.325.

§408.351 — What happens if we give you misinformation about filing an application?
(a) General rule. You may have considered applying for SVB, for yourself or another person and you may have contacted us in writing, by telephone or in person to inquire about filing an application for SVB.

§408.820 — Will we send you a notice of intended action affecting your SVB payment status?
(a) Advance written notice requirement. Before we suspend, reduce ( see subpart E of this part), or terminate your SVB payments, we will send you a written notice explaining our intention to do so, except where we have factual information confirming your death, e.g., as specified in § 404.704(b) of this chapter, or a report by a surviving spouse, a legal guardian, a parent or other close relative, or a landlord.

§408.714 — When are reports due?
(a) A reportable event happens. You should report to us as soon as an event listed in § 408.708 happens.


---
Approx tokens used: 2977 / 3000
